VE FAQs – Frequently Asked Questions
Frequently Asked Questions
Clients
Hiring
Resources
Cost
Offer
Infrastructure
About Virtual Employee
How can Virtual Employee help my business grow?
VE offers a large talent pool of professionals from various domains, whom you can hire as a dedicated employee for your business. Unlike a freelancer, VE resources work exclusively for you and you have absolute managerial control over them.
Abundant Talent
Take your pick from a wide range of triple-vetted resources that suit your domain. From single hiring to team hiring, the choice is entirely yours.
Cost-Effective
Pay only for the remote employee you hire and nothing else. No overhead cost and no hidden charges. Get a professional resource at bottom dollar and save up to 70% on remote hiring.
Available 24/7
No matter which timezone you are in, your remote resource is always there for you. He/she comes with the backing of an entire team, which makes your work keep going like clockwork.
I want to see your office. Do you have any pictures to share?
We’ll do you one better! Click on the links below and take a virtual tour of our state-of-the-art offices located at the Noida Special Economic Zone (NSEZ) and Sector 63, Noida (U.P).
Noida Special Economic Zone (NSEZ) office
Sector 63. Noida. U.P office
Does VE pay well to the employees I hire as per Indian law?
All employees at VE are paid remuneration packages at par with the industry norms. These are determined based on their experience and current market trends. All remunerations and facilities provided to the employees are fully compliant with the Indian labor laws.
Besides being a CMMI Level 3 and ISO 9000:2008 and 270001: 2013 certified company, VE also strictly adheres to the Indian labor laws, which explicitly prohibits under-age employment.
Does VE hire third-party services for client requirements?
AT VE, all the services provided to you are entirely in-house and the resources are on our payroll. We do not hire freelancers or third-party services.
If I am not a technical person, then how will VE select the right fit for my requirements?
You do not need to be technically proficient to work with your virtual employees. All our teams are assigned highly experienced and capable tech team leads, who identify the right skill sets of the resources and share relevant profiles post-discussion. We also offer a free trial period for you to assess resources’ quality before making an informed decision.
How will VE ensure completion of my project?
Unlike freelancers and project management companies, VE provides you with a dedicated virtual employee who works exclusively for you, just like your in-house employee would. The remote employee isn’t only with you for one project but works for you, reports to you, and is your resource, for as long you wish to retain him/her. YOu can monitor their daily work, will get reports and communicate directly to ensure the deadlines are met without fail.
Can you share some testimonials and case studies links?
Absolutely! We are proud of the services offered to our clients and their words of praise are a testament to our success and credibility. We have 700+ case studies and video testimonials which you can access
here.
Hiring, Resources and Models
Why do I have to prepay or pay you in advance?
As per the VE model, you do not hire services from us but experts that work as your dedicated employees. The prepay system allows us to bear the administrative and overhead charges, that include but are not limited to providing your employee an office space, transportation, internet, etc to ensure his work efficiency.
What's the point of a notice deposit in a prepaid model?
The notice period is the number of days, each party needs to give to the other to terminate/discontinue the services. Virtual Employee is a pre-paid monthly service, i.e. the client pays one month in advance for each month of service. However, when first starting with Virtual Employee, the client also pays in addition to the first month of service, a one time notice period deposit. The notice period deposit secures the interests of VE and yours. Here’s how:
For VE
The presence of the notice period clause (NP) in our contract states that it is not a Term Contract. The notice period ensures that in case you decide to discontinue with us, we get a buffer period to allocate the resource to a different client or project.
Hence the first invoice the client (you) receive when starting with VirtualEmployee.com is as follows: Charge for 1 month of Service + One Time Notice Period Deposit = Initial/First Invoice. Thereafter, all subsequent invoices shall be for just 1 month of service without any additional costs.
For the Client
The notice period clause safeguards your work and prevents any hindrance to it. If for some reason your payment gets delayed, this clause ensures that your work does not get hampered during the notice period. This in turn provides you with the buffer time to make the payment, without having to worry about any negative effects on your project.
P.S: The notice deposit is refundable and can be adjusted or reimbursed in part/full at the last month of invoicing.
The NP rider also states that you are provided with an instant replacement if a trained employee resigns. The replacement is provided within the employee’s notice period duration with a focus on a streamlined and efficient knowledge transfer/transition. This in turn ensures that your work always remains unaffected and keeps on going like nothing ever happened.
How does it work with Virtual Employees?
Unlike conventional outsourcing services, Virtual Employees provides you with experienced and talented resources, which we like to refer to as ‘remote staffing solutions’. Instead of outsourcing your work to us, we enable you to hire the expertise/resource who works remotely for you just like your a local employee The only difference is that they work from our well-supervised offices in India to give you the cost advantage of hiring someone at a fraction of what you would pay someone back home. It’s much like your own offshore office.
You can hire resources on a part-time or full-time basis. We run on a prepaid monthly model where you only have to pay after finalising your resource. You do not have to commit to a time-bound contract as VE offers monthly rolling contracts, which puts you in the driver’s seat with complete control.
You can choose to hire a single resource or an entire team, based on your requirements. Once we get you started with your virtual employee/s, they are accountable and answerable only to you, as far as daily work is concerned. Furthermore, you can contact them directly via remote communication tools, such as Skype, e-mail, and phone calls.
Think of this as your own office minus the hassles of setting up and maintaining an office (infrastructure/hardware/overheads etc.) VE takes care of all the overheads, administrative work (insurance, tax, contracts, HR, accounts, etc), HR/Payroll, and IT/Logistics support.
Can I hire an employee on a part-time basis and later on hire the same employee on a full-time basis?
Absolutely. At VE, the choice is always yours. We will never stipulate which resource to hire and for what duration. You can easily switch between part-time and full-time employees as per your business requirement.
I require an employee who is proficient in English. Is this possible?
With a population of 1.3 billion, English is the second most commonly used language in India and is the bedrock of corporate communication across the country and beyond. We take pride in selecting candidates who are not only proficient in the English language (spoken & written), but many of them have nearly mastered the language to perfection. Rest assured, the language barrier does not exist at VE!
Can I hire a single employee or a team at a time?
Based on your business requirements, you can opt to hire one employee or an entire team. Also, you can easily switch between standalone resources and teams at any time. It’d be best to consult with your Relationship Accounts Manager (RAM) for a smooth transitioning.
How can I ensure that the right person is hired for the position?
We will never tell you who to pick and who not to. At VE, we work on the ethos of ‘choice’, especially when it comes to the client, i.e ‘you’. Before hiring a resource, you have the authority to test or interview the resource yourself, for complete peace of mind. You also get a free trial to assess the quality of your resource before hiring. Pay only if you are convinced.
Can I interview the candidates myself over video conferencing and monitor the evaluation test in real-time?
When you decide to hire a resource from VE, rest assured, you’re in control, all the way. Not only do you get to interview the candidate via video conferencing, but you can also monitor the proficiency test in real-time, administered to the candidates.
Can I visit your office and meet the resource in-person, and/or work with him for a few days in your office?
We’ll be delighted to host you at our premises, where not only can you work on your project but also interact and get to know your virtually hired employees, in-person. Besides the rendezvous, feel free to conduct training sessions as well as one-on-one interactions with your offshore employees.
My requirements are unique and I want to handpick the right talent for my company. Can I do that?
Browse through the CVs of carefully triple-vetted candidates that we send, pick the right one based on your choice, and we’ll align a video/audio interview session accordingly. This will help you evaluate the resource in real-time and make an informed decision.
Would my employee be a dedicated one or a shared employee?
The hired resources work exclusively for you and report to you directly, There are no middlemen! Every resource understands his/her commitment and accountability towards their virtual employer, thus offering their best to your cause.
Will the virtual employee be employed by me or by you?
We take care of the hiring process for your requirements. Hence, the virtual employees will be on our payroll. But that’s the extent of our involvement. Once you hire a resource, he/she will report directly to you and shall be answerable or accountable, only to you.
Can I have a trial for a short duration just to check your services?
Absolutely. Take your pick from a vast roster of professionals and work with them on a Free Trial mode. Evaluate their work and compatibility, and only then hire them. Please get in touch with us for a Free Trial today!
Can I hire a full time/part-time/hourly employee?
Certainly. We offer a client-centric pay model that offers you the flexibility of hiring in a format that best suits your needs. In the full and part-time formats, the resources you hire will be dedicated solely to your projects, i.e. exclusivity. However, in the hourly format, you are required to pre-purchase the minimum hours every month, wherein the resources are assigned to you as and when the need arises.
How big a team can I make at VE?
That depends entirely on your manpower requirement. Whatever be the number you are looking at, VE will be more than happy to assist and accommodate.
Can I see some samples of the work done by your employees/candidates?
Yes, of course, you can! However, as VE is bound by NDA (non-disclosure agreements) with our clients, we can showcase the work once we get the appropriate permissions.
Would I get an employee working as per my time zone?
At VE, our employees work in overlapping shifts, which ensures that the teams are always manned and ready to be deployed as per your time zone requirement. Our extensive pool of rotating resources means that you are never short of support.
How many leaves does VE provide to the resource?
Every employee you hire is entitled to 8 paid holidays in a year. After his/her first month of employment, the employee is credited with one day of paid leave per month. Thus, your employee is entitled to 19 days of paid-leaves in a calendar year.
Can you explain to me the interview process?
The interview process at VE is fairly rigorous and is designed to be client-centric. It’s a 6-step process, the breakdown is as such:
Share with us your requirements. Feel free to provide as much detail as you want of the resource including experience required, qualifications, skill set, domain expertise, shift timings, and job duties. Be sure to give us as many details as possible to make the process a breeze.
The HR department at VE goes head-hunting for suitable candidates. We carefully shortlist from our in-house employees or headhunt the talent exclusively to meet your custom requirements.
The shortlisted names are invited for a face-to-face interview. For technical roles/positions, a separate technical round is also conducted to ascertain the candidate’s capability and expertise in a specific domain. Post-interview, the candidate is required to go through several tests including aptitude, English proficiency, and domain-specific knowledge.
Post-screening, the selected CVs are shared with you, keeping in mind the efficacy of the candidate.
You screen through the selected CVs and based on your requirements, you can also administer an assessment test to the candidate in real-time.
The last step is the decision-making. You can either hire from the selected pool or request us to continue looking for an ideal placement. Once you are convinced of your resource, he will start working on your project within the same day itself.
How long does it take to hire an employee or how soon can we get started?
Once you’ve selected your preferred resource post-selection process, it will take less than 8 hours to have the resource assigned to you. As we already have a vast talent pool of in-house resources, the operational TAT is significantly lesser than what you might experience when hiring a resource on your own. VE provides the best employees for over 150+ domains and industries.
For how long can I hire an employee?
The choice is entirely yours. There’s no limit to the duration that you can hire a remote employee for. Depending on your requirements, you can hire a dedicated resource or a team for days, weeks, months, and even years. It’s your business, it’s your choice!
Since the employee is dedicated, do I need to worry about payroll and taxes?
Not at all. Consider VE as a bridge between yourself and the resource you wish to hire. Every employee who works for you is legally hired and is on the payroll of Virtual Employee Pvt. Ltd.
This ensures that you only get the expertise of the employee and none of the baggage!. We take care of all the overheads including office space, hardware/software, administration, supervision, management, customer support, technical support, HR, and payroll, etc.
Services, Systems and Supervision
What guarantee does Virtual Employee provide?
At VE, the remote employee you hire works exclusively for you, which means that he/she will report directly to you and you’ll have complete autonomy over the employee, just like you’d have in case of an in-house hiring. The virtual employee will report to you at the start of the shift and will also share a daily activity report (DAR) at the end of each day.
You have complete managerial and operational control over your asset. You can communicate with your employee any time of the day via Skype, email, or phone and can even use project management tools to keep a holistic overview of his/her productivity/performance. VE can help you address your productivity concerns by installing tracking software on the employee’s computer. However, in extreme cases. VE can be requested to intervene in the matter, which mostly relates to replacing the resource.
To ensure time compliance from all VE employees, we have installed biometrics at every entry and exit gate of our premises and CCTV cameras cover the entire office complex. This ensures that the employees can make the best use of their time.
Where are the VE offices located and where will my resource be based?
Virtual Employee Pvt. Ltd. is headquartered at Noida Special Economic Zone (Noida, NCR) near India’s capital city, New Delhi, and your resources will be working out of the same location as well as from our branch office at C-196, Sector-63, Noida (U.P).
How many Virtual Employees are working at VirtualEmployee.com?
Currently, we have 2,000+ employees on our payroll, who are working from 7 Virtual Employee offices spread across India, UK and the USA.
Can VE provide an isolated/restricted place where only my employees will work from?
Of course! Your need for privacy is one of our biggest priorities. VE offices are spacious enough to provide your remote employee a dedicated and isolated enclosure, as and when you require.
Can you provide a specific system to my resource for my specific requirement?
Absolutely! VE can easily provide additional hardware upgrades and new software to your remote employee, per your request. These additions will be over the current configuration as provided under the monthly cost and will be billed accordingly.
What is the system configuration you generally provide to the resources?
At VE, we tend to walk alongside technology and thus equip our employees with the latest hardware and software configurations. However, as per your request or requirement, additional hardware and software can be provided at an additional cost. Our default system configurations is as such:
Desktop computer system with 8GB RAM – Laptops are also available on request
Single Monitor
Internet speed (on lease lines) up to 100 MBPS
Windows or Linux OS as per project requirement
Open Office productivity suite. Microsoft Office can also be provided to the employee at an additional cost to the client.
Communication software such as Skype, Yahoo Messenger, etc.
Headset with mic
Would VE allow my employee to work from home?
As per our policy, we do not allow our employees to work from home and actively discourage them to do so unless compelled by unforeseen circumstances (e.g. pandemic, natural disasters, or employee’s immobility due to an accident or illness, etc.). In such a situation, we have contingency measures in place as per our business continuity plan and may allow our resources to work from home after taking approval from the client.
How are the employees supervised at your end?
At VE, we explicitly trust our employees as professionals and accountable for their work and actions. However, we do understand and empathize with any concern the client might have in this case with remote employees. To address this, our Tech and Team Leads supervise every team member and are always present to troubleshoot any issue.
We share a Daily Activity Report (DAR) with the client at the end of an employee’s shift. This gives a clear understanding of his/her productivity for the day. Also, you have the full liberty of monitoring your remote employee’s performance and tasks via remote tracking software that can be purchased outside our contract.
Which project management tools do you use to gauge productivity?
At VE, we keep a close track of our employees’ productivity and performance by using a myriad of project management tools, such as Trello, Jira, Asana, etc. However, if there’s any other project management tool that you prefer, we’ll be more than happy to have it installed in your remote employee’s system.
What is the monthly cost of hiring a remote employee?
You can hire a remote employee from Virtual Employee from $995/month to $1,995/month. Offering some of the lowest prices in the industry, you stand to save as much as 70% on overhead and resource costs.
Can you provide highly skilled and technical employees?
Absolutely! Our employees in the technical domains are highly experienced and are always in tune with the emerging trends and technologies in the world of computing. This gives the edge of offering a new level of value addition to your business.
What sort of skillsets does VE provide?
All 2,000+ employees at VE are experts in their respective fields and continue to add to their knowledge base and skill sets. We can provide you with an excellent resource for any domain (technical and non-technical), as long as the skill sets are white-collar based, i.e. the resource working on a computer.
What data protection measures does VE undertake?
We take data protection extremely seriously and have in place a ‘zero tolerance’ policy in the case of even a suspected data breach. The security of our clients’ data is our utmost priority. Your data is securely stored on VE servers and the employees have restricted access to the data on a need-to-know basis. The employees can access required data only through the servers and cannot transfer the same to their systems.
At your request, we can disable any external devices such as CD-ROM drives, USB ports, printers, etc. on an employee’s system. We can also install tracking software on your resource’s system which can monitor his/her actions and disable certain actions, such as sending data via email, etc.
Do you use Virtual Desktops (VDI)?
Yes, we have the provision for virtual desktops (VDI) and can arrange the infrastructure as per the client’s requirement.
Can I have certain websites blocked on my employee's desktop/laptop?
Certainly! The virtual employee you hire is your dedicated resource and thus works as per your company’s policies and data security norms. Per your instructions, our IT team can block any website or online service on the employee’s system.
What are the procedures you have in place to protect my sensitive and confidential data/information?
At VE, we employ a host of robust and integrated data security protocols that ensure complete protection of your valuable and sensitive data. VE is a CMMI Level 3 and ISO 27001:2013 certified entity. Both certifications deal with Information Security Management System and validate our commitment towards managing and securing your sensitive data.
IT
The employees work in a cloud environment and have only limited access to your data. The limitations or restrictions are placed as per your request. This informative video will take this further.
See Video
Legal
We have a strong team of dedicated in-house lawyers who hold regular training sessions with the staff and help draft iron-clad contracts between us and the clients.
Working with Virtual Employees
How can I control my resources?
When you hire a remote employee from us, it’s pretty much like working with your own employee back home. The only difference is that now you are working with a talented offshore staff that is being constantly supervised by us. You have complete control over when and how the virtual employee works for you. The resource works exclusively for you and reports directly to you. You can easily connect with him/her over Skype, email or phone and keep real-time tabs on their productivity, if you so wish to.
In the event that you feel things aren’t working out, you can always request for a replacement resource and our HR team will provide you with one at the earliest possible time. This ensures that you are always in control.
What if my remote resource falls sick? Will I be provided with a backup resource for the duration of the original's absence?
As per global norms, VE employees are also entitled to a certain number of leaves a year that they can be availed as paid sick leaves. At VE, our resources are provided with 1 paid leave every month from the second month of their employment. However, any sick leaves over and beyond the one granted/month will lead to salary deductions.
As for the backup, if the remote employee is not able to report back to work for an extended period of time (due to prolonged illness), then you can definitely put in a request and our HR team will assign a replacement for you.
However, if your business requirement can’t afford a day’s disruption, then it’d be best that you keep a back-up resource who can step in at a moment’s notice, during the absence of your remote employee.
Can I call my employee on-site or out of office to discuss the project and/or to meet the local team?
Yes, certainly you can communicate with your dedicated remote employee during his/her working hours via Skype (audio & video), email, and phone calls. Also, we’ll be delighted to have your resource visit you onsite and meet his/her employer and the overseas team. However, the cost of the offshore employee’s Visa, travel expenses, and lodging will have to be borne by you.
Can I communicate with my employee after office hours for support?
That would depend on your resource’s availability after the working hours. Also, we cannot instruct or order the employee to be available post-working hours. It would depend entirely on his/her comfort level. But no harm in asking, right?
Can I send my device to the employee for testing purposes? What guarantee does VE give or the protection of the device?
Absolutely! Feel free to ship your device to us and rest assured we’ll be as and even more careful with your device than we are with ours. The device will be handled with care and the employee will conduct the testing process, and share the report with you.
Can I impart training to my offshore remote employee?
Absolutely! Your remote employee is just like your in-house resource with just a geographical difference. The resource works for you, reports to you, and will always be open to the training sessions to expand his/her learning curve. We can always schedule training sessions during their working hours. So, please feel free to let us know!
Can I offer incentives and bonuses to my hired remote employee?
Absolutely! Your remote employee is just like your in-house resource with just a geographical difference. The resource works for you, reports to you, and will always be open to the training sessions to expand his/her learning curve. We can always schedule training sessions during their working hours. So, please feel free to let us know!
Of course! It would be a great morale booster for the employee to have earned an incentive or a bonus. Whatever amount you wish to pay will be credited to the employee’s account in full by VE after receiving it from you. Virtual Employee Pvt. Ltd. does not charge any commission or percentage cut from the incentive/bonus amount intended for your remote employee.
Can I monitor my employee's screen while working on my project?
Yes, certainly! You can monitor the remote employer’s screen anytime while he’s working on your project. We extensively use TeamViewer for remote monitoring and system access. However, if you have any other preference, please let us know and we’ll install the software in the employee’s system.
Clients, Costs and Contracts
What’s the duration for the termination of contract with VirturalEmployee.com?
As much as it pains us to see you go, as per contract, we can’t hold you forever. Either party can terminate their contract by giving a notice of 15 to 30 days to the other party. However, as VE offers a rolling contract and not a term one, it means that you can terminate our services in as little as just 5 days.
What all is included in the monthly cost to me? If my employee requires additional software then do I send that over or will it be provided by VE?
The quoted monthly price is inclusive of a variety of components that include the cost of hiring the resource, salaries, and the VE service fee, office space. HR, management, hardware/software, infrastructure and customer support. The prices quoted to you do not carry any hidden charges.
However, you might be liable to pay additional costs for components that are over and beyond our contract. e.g. in case your employee requires a specific software or hardware that VE does not provide in the package. If a specific software is available in our library, then we’ll bill you for the same. We do not endorse or use 3rd-party software licenses, which means that any software requirement has to be met at our end. As for the hardware, you are more than welcome to send the specific hardware you want your resource to use. The device will be handled with utmost care and it’s safety ensured.
Will I have to pay for the recruitment services?
No! Not at all. We don’t charge you for the recruitment process. You do not have to pay a penny until you hire a remote employee from VE.
What is your pricing structure and what are the modes of payment do you accept?
You can hire a remote employee from VE for as low as USD $4.5/hour. However, the consolidated price structure for a dedicated employee can vary depending on a variety of hiring requirements, such as domain, work model, skillset, experience, and knowledge requisites.
We accept all major credit cards and wire transfers.
Who would bear the cost of employees’s leaves?
As the remote employee you hire from VE reports to you directly and shall work as a locally hired resource, for all intents and purposes, the cost of the employee’s leaves will be borne by you (the client).
What is your billing cycle?
Virtual Employee Pvt. Ltd. operates on a pre-paid model, which means your invoice will be raised before the beginning of each month.
Do you enter into an NDA or a non-disclosure agreement at time of the contract?
Absolutely! In the interest of both the parties, we enter into a non-disclosure agreement that we sign with our clients. Also, if the client wishes to, we can also sign an NDA document furnished by the client.
If a specific software is too expensive, can you then provide an unlicensed or pirated copy to the employee?
Virtual Employee Pvt. Ltd. is a CMMI Level 3 company that stands and works on a set of non-negotiable ethics. We adhere to all relevant policies and are compliant with all industry protocols, thus we neither endorse, use or provide unlicensed and pirated software.
Who would be the owner of the work and the source codes for technical projects completed by my hired employee?
The owner is YOU and will always be YOU! Virtual Employee only provides you with a talented and a professional resource. Once you hire him or her, they report to you, they work for, they are accountable to you and they are your employee by every standard.
Rest assured, every project they complete, every code they write, every innovation they come up with are legally your intellectual property.
Still Have a Question?
Talk to someone who has solved this for 4,500+ global clients, not a chatbot.
Get a Quick Answer