The Heart of Virtual Employee - Our Company Culture - Virtual Employee
Culture:
People First
Feel good
about giving.
VE is committed to standing by your side, ensuring your well-being, and providing the support you need during challenging times. We
organized vaccination camps, contributed to the CMO fund,
and offered compassionate leave during the Covid-19 pandemic. We care about your well-being and provide support when you need it the most. Together, we can overcome any obstacle and emerge stronger than ever.
Dinesh Gaur
Director Operations
See it in action
Feel good
when you grow.
We're all about your growth. Through our
Upskilling Program,
you'll gain valuable insights into our culture, values, and our role in the world. Sharpen your business and software skills with our online classes. We believe in a level playing field, providing access to top-notch training platforms at our expense. Your development is our priority.
Harsh Vardhan
Director & CFO - Finance
See it in action
Feel good
in body and mind.
We go beyond just work. We care about your overall well-being too! That's why we offer a range of facilities to help you stay healthy and energized. Join our
rejuvenating yoga sessions
to find balance and peace of mind.
Hit the gym
to keep yourself fit and active. And for those hunger pangs, our
24X7 cafeteria
has got you covered with delicious and nutritious meals.
Anu Sree Nair
General Manager - Talent Aquisition
See it in action
Feel good
for your whole family.
Your family's well-being is our priority, and we've
partnered with trusted insurance providers
like New India Insurance and HDFC Ergo to offer comprehensive coverage. From pre-existing diseases to maternity needs, we've got you covered. We understand that being a new parent is a unique journey, so we provide paid leave. Plus, you'll have the flexibility to take paid time off to care for an ill family member.
Rajesh Kumar
General Manager - HR
See it in action
Feel good
when you connect.
Virtual Employee offers an inclusive environment where diverse perspectives thrive through
Buddy Program
. Collaborate with experienced professionals, tap into their expertise, and broaden your horizons. Our supportive culture fosters open communication, teamwork, and continuous learning. Together, we achieve remarkable success.
Anuradha Narwal
PPC & CRO Head
See it in action
Feel good
about getting recognized.
Through our
Recognition Program
, we celebrate exceptional performance, innovative ideas, and teamwork. With competitive compensation, attractive benefits, and engaging activities, we ensure our employees feel valued and motivated. Join us and experience a workplace where your contributions are appreciated, inspiring your professional growth.
Amit Chellani
Global Head - Client Experience & Service Delivery
See it in action
When the Pandemic hit
our values and beliefs shined.
"I believe a company’s true character is revealed during tough times. It’s easy to offer perks when things are good, but it's harder to support employees when the situation is dire. Our response to the coronavirus pandemic exemplifies this. While many in our industry made cutthroat decisions and layoffs, VE retained majority of our team. Despite losing clients and a dry sales funnel, we did not cut salaries. When we had to part with some staff, we provided lengthy notice periods. Compared to the industry, we fared much better in supporting our employees."
Shaunvir Mahil
Co-Founder & MD - Virtual Employee
Your browser does not support the video tag.
Play Video
Pause Video
Experience the power of our values
in every moment.
Join Our Team